I think that's a fair take on it, if there were no context.

Putting the TL;DR at the front as well as at the end. 

TL;DR: There's existing context for Jesus Is King.

Kanye was raised Baptist and was probably what we would call culturally Christian, or at least didn't seem to have a particularly firm foundation in his faith. However, he comes out swinging with Christian ideas/themes in his first album (College Dropout, 2003) with the song "Jesus Walks." He asks Jesus to walk with him for strength/protection/forgiveness, and talks about how the Devil is trying to break him. He also raps about Christ's sacrifice for sinners ("to the hustlers, murderers, drug dealers, even the scrippers, Jesus walks for them") and lifting up the poor ("to the victims of welfare feel we livin' in Hell here, hell yeah, Jesus walks for them"). 

There's a lot more to dig into Jesus Walks, but there are a couple of other tracks on The College Dropout worth checking out, namely "I'll Fly Away" and "Never Let Me Down." "I'll Fly Away" is literally just his cover of the old hymn/traditional of the same name. "Never Let Me Down" discusses themes of the church interacting with the community, his desire for forgiveness, his thankfulness for surviving his 2002 car accident (which he attributes to divine intervention), the idea that he gets his lyrics from God, and the love of God as a universally understood language.

Late Registration (2005) touches on aspects of his Christian belief in "Heard 'Em Say," which discusses the influence his grandma has on his faith, his fear of the devil (and greed). Graduation (2005) touches on the subject again in "Can't Tell Me Nothing." He discusses a dream where he goes to heaven, but rejects it in favor of material existence with a promise to return when he's ready, with a reference to Luke 12:48 discussing his previous (at the time current) misbehaviors. In the second verse, he references his believe in Christ's sacrifice on the cross for humanity, but that he has an existential level of frustration with the juxtaposition of evil in the world with God's existence. He also describes himself as somewhere in-between the innocence of Adam & Eve and the adversarial nature of Satan.

2007 - 2008 is a bad period of time for Kanye. He & his fiancée end their engagement, and his mom dies. Her death completely changes him as a person and an artist. This leads to the overwhelmingly melancholy of 808s & Heartbreak (2008), the themes of which are love, loneliness/isolation, heartbreak, and feeling empty. There's only one passing mention of God, and he discusses his emotional state introspectively, but not really from a religious perspective. This is where we see Kanye veer away from his religious background, and if I recall correctly, he starts identifying as non-religious at around this time.
2010 sees Kanye wreck house with My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy. This album is absolute masterpiece, but it's relatively void of references to faith or religious belief. Most every religious reference here seems to be a figure of speech, a cultural allusion, or a narrative device. An absolute banger regardless - but a strong example of his step away from faith.

2012 Kanye starts dating (& eventually gets engaged to and marries) Kim Kardashian. This is somewhat relevant later.

Yeezus (2013) is dark as hell, but it's where we start to see him exploring his faith again. "I Am a God" sounds crazy sacrilegious at face value, but upon further examination, it seems to detail the self-destructive nature of ego. Kanye proclaims multiple times, "I am a god," demanding material things and obedience. However, as the song goes on, he breaks down screaming in agony. The song title is also an interesting sideways reference to John 10:34-38, wherein Jesus reveals his nature as God's son, leading his address by quoting Psalms 82:6 - "Is it not written in your law, I said, 'Ye are gods?'" (Emphasis on Ye, which is Kanye's nickname.) In the song, he also proclaims that he is a man of God, and that his whole life is in the hands of God. Yeezus is, to me, kind of where a lightbulb started going off in his head.

It's worth noting that the Yeezus tour concerts were apparently structured in a chapter-based format with each centered on different themes. Structured in a redemption arc narrative, the chapters were called "FIGHTING," "RISING," "FALLING," "SEARCHING," and "FINDING." SEARCHING and FINDING in particular were centered around themes of God & religion. I wish I'd seen this in person. 

The Life of Pablo (2016) shows a strong return to religious themes and beginning of the intense gospel music influence that his more recent work exhibits. "Ultralight Beam" starts with a sample of a child casting out demons from a house, and invoking the name of the Lord. Kanye states that we are living in a "God dream." Verse 1 starts out as a prayer asking for serenity, peace, love, and God's presence. Verse 2 starts off with putting God on trial (for the presence of evil in the world), but reconciles with a statement of trust in God. Verse 3 is filled with direct and indirect religious references, not limited to Psalm 91, Luke 23:34, Saint Michael the Archangel (Revelation 12:7-9), "This Little Light of Mine," the Noachite flood, etc. The spoken word track, "Low Lights," is a confession of faith that reads almost like a 21st-century Pauline epistle. The following track, "Highlights," makes specific references to Kanye being Christian. In "Wolves," Kanye proposes a 21st-century meeting between Mary and Joseph and asks us how that would look differently today. "Saint Pablo," rather logically, discusses the downfalls of materialism and focuses heavily on the conversion of Saint Saul/Paul of Tarsus.

Ye (2018) is a dark album that focuses primarily on Kanye's bipolar disorder. It's relatively free of religious references. 

The end of 2018 is where things get really weird. Kanye goes public about actively going off his meds and that "the Alien Ye is like, full back in mode, off of medication." He writes the album Yandhi, but misses a bunch of release dates then completely scraps it, saying it's indefinitely delayed. On the first Sunday of 2019, he starts a weekly invitation-only "Sunday Service" concert series on his private property, the focus of which is just gospel music. 

In the fall of 2019, Kanye returns to Wyoming, and finishes his latest album, Jesus Is King.

TL;DR: There's existing context for Jesus Is King.