GENERAL RULES
ILLUSTRIOUS 
Order of the Red Cross
i
SALUTES
Officers will salute with sword or hand, according as the sword 
is drawn or in its scabbard. Upon addressing or being addressed, 
the Junior will always make the first salute, which will be ac­
knowledged by the Senior, 
come to Carry simultaneously and stand at Attention. They should 
always exchange salutes at the close of the conversation.
The Sovereign Master (or Commander), if seated, does not 
arise to acknowledge a salute, and the High Priest (or Prelate) 
acknowledges salutes by bowing ceremoniously.
An officer should always have his sword drawn when giving 
a command
RED CROSS OFFICERS
If the salute is with the sword, both
Sovereign Master ...............................................................................
Prince Chancellor ..............................................................................
Prince Master of the Palace ..............................................................
Master of Cavalry .............................................................................
Master of Infantry (also Companion Conductor, C. C.) . .
Excellent High Priest ........................................................................
Master of Finance .............................................................................
Master of Dispatches .........................................................................
Standard Bearer .................................................................................
Sword Bearer .....................................................................................
Warder ...............................................................................................
Sentinel ..............................................................................................
Guards (three or more) ......................................................................
These officers should wear the Ceremonial Kobes or in lieu 
thereof:
S. M.
P. C.
P. M. P. 
M. C.
M. I.
H. P.
M. F.
M. D.
St. B. 
Sw. B.
The following portions of the Ritual shall not be conferred 
upon more than one person at the same time:
R. C.: Bach Candidate to pass over the bridge separately. 
The work to be exemplified on the first and last Candidate. All 
to be introduced into the Audience Chamber immediately following 
the first Candidate.
K. T.: See Optional Rubric pages 110, 111 and 112.
W.
Sen.
Gd.
Green Sash; Belt and Sword; Cap, with the Red Cross of 
the Order on the front of the same.
If a Cominandery is unable to furnish such Robings, then 
plain civilian dress is to be worn. The Grand Council, the 
Companion Conductor, the Warder (while guarding the Grand 
Council), and the Jewish Guards, must not appear in the Red 
Cross Uniform, as herein given.
3
2
red cross opening
RED CROSS PARAPHERNALIA
Prince Master of the Palace:-See that the 
Chamber is in suitable array for my reception. 
Chancellor and Excellent High Priest:—Accom1.
Robes and suitable Head-Gear for the Officers of the Palace.
of the Grand
S. M.:
Audience 
prince 
pany
High Priest and members
2. Robes for the 
Council. to my apartment.
[Zn A udience Chamber.] Companion 
WarderSound the assembly. Officers:—Take your sta- 
Oonipanions :■—Be seated.
3. An Altar; Bible; Swords; Square and Compasses; Cushion;
and Coronel for Zerubbabel; portand
writing quill.
me
M. P.:
P.
Fetters; Garb of Slavery; Robe 
able writing stand; decree
4. Conunanderies shall also provide Jewish and Persian Banners, tions.
Companion Master of Cavalry:—Are all present Com­
panions of the Illustrious Order of the Red Cross?
designed as follows:
Jewish Banner: 
with Lion Rampant thereon.
The Banner of Judah a white background
of Cavalry examines those on the South, Master of In- 
VVlien opposite each other in the West,
f Master
fantry those on
Master of Infantry will report to Master of Cavalry; then both 
proceed to their stations. The Master of Cavalry saluteB the Prince 
Master of the Palace and reports.]
. White background, the biasing sun in tho 
half moons in the lower
the North.
Persian Banner:
half, and three crescents or
upper 
half, designs in gold.
5. A practical Bridge. Prince Master of the Palace:—All present are 
Companions of the Illustrious Order of the Red Cross. 
[Seated.]
P. M. P.:
M. C.:
Companion Warder:—Post the Sentinel, 
inform him that a Council of the Illustrious Order of 
the Red Cross is about to be opened, and direct him to 
guard accordingly.
[Warder informs the Sentinel, closes door, knocks >5 © © ® ©
Warder resumes station and re►T<
Answered by Sentinel.
ports.]
Prince Master of the Palace:—The Sentinel is at 
his post, and the Audience Chamber is duly guarded.
P. M. P.: Companion Master of Cavalry:—-Form the 
lines for the reception of the Sovereign Master.
W.:
5
4
[The linea are formed and tlie Sovereign Master received a,c. 
cording to Tactics of the jurisdiction. When the Sovereign 
Mooter enters, the Warder will announce “The Sovereign Mas- 
When the Sovereign Master lias reached hiB station i 
the East he will command.]
S. M.: Carry, Swords.
cated.
God, whose throne is in the heavens, yet 
alike the princes and the people that dwell 
desire to thank Thee for the many
and true
ing
who regardest 
upon the earth, we
mercies and blessings with which Thou hast been
cnr lives. We thank Thee for this ^ “
in
j j
ter.
Let the Words be communi- to crown
fraternal intercourse 
fully near us at all times, and give ns the aid of Thv 
Holy Spirit to guide us into all Truth. Grant us Thv 
to cheer and strengthen us in our journey through 
from the snares and pitfalls of the
i with our Companions. Be merciMaster
takes his seat while these tests are being
For manner of com[Sovereignmade
by the Prince Master of the Palace, 
municating the words, see grace
life, and deliverance 
Evil One. Incline our hearts to seek Thy favor and pro­
tection as our rightful Sovereign, that we may not be 
impeded in the great work of erecting a spiritual edifice 
that shall endure forever. Pardon all our sins, we pray 
Thee, and finally admit us into the presence of the King 
members of His eternal household. Amen.
The Work.”]
it
First Division:—Communicate to the Sec­
ond Division the Jewish Pass.
Carry, Swords.
P. M. P.:
P. M. P.:
Guard. [Word given.]
Second Division:—Communicate to the 
First Division the Persian Countersign. Guard. [Word
of Kings, as 
[All respond.] Amen.
S. M.: Companions:—Re-cover.
given.] Carry, Swords.
P. M. P.: First Division:—Communicate to the Sec­
ond Division the Bed Cross Word. Guard. [Word given.]
Carry, Swords. Re­
turn, Swords.
Carry, Swords. 
P. M. P.: Second Division:—Communicate to the 
First Division the Sign, Grip, and Word of a Companion 
of the Illustrious Order of the Bed Cross. Guard. [Stgn, 
Grip, and Word given.] Carry, Swords.
Sovereign Master:—Your order has been
[The lines dismissed by the command:]
S. M. Companions:—Be seated.
Prince Master of the Palace:—It is my order 
that a Council of the Illustrious Order of the Red Cross 
be now opened. This you will communicate to the Com­
panions for their government.
P. M. P.: | Draws sword, if not already drawn.] Com­
panions:—Attention. Draw, Swords. It is the order 
of the Sovereign Master that a Council of the Illustrious 
Order of the Red Cross be now opened. Take due notice 
and govern yourselves accordingly. Present, Swords.
P. M. P.: Sovereign Master :■—Your order has been 
executed.
S. M.:
P. M. P.:
executed.
S. M.: 
Swords. 
devotions.
Order,
[Rising.] Companions:—Attention.
Excellent High Priest:—Lead our
Un-cover.
PRAYER
The following may be used:
H. P.: Almighty and Eternal Jehovah, the only liv6 7S. M.: [Rising.] I now declare this Council of the 
Illustrious Order of the Red Cross opened in due form. 
Carry, Swords. Companion Warder:—Inform the Sen­
tinel, and direct him to guard accordingly.
[Opens door and says:] Companion Sentinel:- 
The Council is now open. Take due notice and guard 
accordingly.
[Warder closes door, knocks rj ►!< ►!•< ►!< »B >B Answered by
Warder resumes station and reports.]
Sovereign Master:—Your order has been obeyed. 
S. M.: Companions:—Return, Swords. Be seated.
the illustrious order of
THE RED CROSS
W.:
Optional Short Ceremony
Sentinel. [An exemplar may ho med. The class shall participate 
m those parts of the Ritual where indicated When an 
exemplar is used the class shall be placed in a conven 
lent position where they can witness and hear the cere- 
and participate when necessary. The entire
W.:
htony,
class shall be conducted into the Audience Chamber
by the ML, and the exemplar shall be placed a few 
paces from the Altar, which shall be placed before the 
class enters:]
S. M.: The Illustrious Order of the Red Cross is con­
ferred in a Council duly convened, and the ceremony must 
•be conferred in full or short form. I will confer the Order 
upon you in short form, and proceed to invest you with the 
attributes of the Illustrious Order of the Red Cross. Be­
fore doing so, however, I must require of you the follow­
ing declaration:
(All candiates must make declaration)
S. M.: Companions, do you on your honor as Royal 
Arch Masons, and in the presence of God and these wit­
nesses, declare that you will be forever faithful to the trust 
we are about to repose in you, and that you will keep in­
violable our secrets, and maintain the honor of this Council.
Candidates: I do.
(Recites Historical Lecture:)
S. M. :
8 9
Bed-chamber-for the protection of the person of 
three of these Guards, and they
Royal 
the Kin?’
HISTORICAL LECTURE There were
the Monarch because of his implicit conchosen
by
in their loyalty.
that for their sins, and
The Scriptures inform us 
those of their forefathers, the Jewish people were led into 
captivity by Nebuzar-adan, Captain of the Guard of 
Nebuchadnezzar, King of Babylon. As slaves they tilled 
the valley of the Euphrates and of the Tigris, until Cyrus 
destroyed the Chaldean dynasty.
During that captivity, Zerubbabel, Crown Prince of the 
House of Judah, and Darius, son of Hystaspes, formed an 
alliance of friendship which was probably terminated only
were 
fidence
Fifteen years after the Jews had laid the foundation of 
Second Temple (520 B.C.) they were forced to eMl a 
Council to consult about the state of the countrv 
dead, and the Magian usurper, SmerdZ,' 
from the throne, to give place to Darius,
the
Grand 
Cambyses 
had been driven
of Hystaspes, whose favoring of the Jews was believed 
marked as that of the Great Cyrus.
was
son
be almost as
Darius spread a feast at his capitol, and invited thereto 
and Rulers of the realm. That feast was
to
with death.
One of the first acts of Cyrus was the liberation of the 
He then permitted them to return to
the Princes
thoroughly enjoyed, and at its close “they every one 
parted to bed at their own house, and Darius the King
went to bed.
The King slept lightly, and awaking he fell into con­
versation with his Three Guards. He suggested, as a part 
of the festivities of the morrow, that they three engage in 
public discussion of some interesting question, as had 
similar occasions from time immedeJewish
captives.
Judea, that they might rebuild the City of Jerusalem 
and its Temple, which Nebuchadnezzar had destroyed.
The foundation of the Second Temple was laid five hun­
dred and thirty-five years before Christ—Zerubbabel, the 
Royal Prince, Jeshua, the High Priest, and Haggai, the 
Prophet, laying the same.
Cyrus died, and his son, Cambyses, succeeded him on 
the Medo-Persian throne. On complaint of the Cutheans, 
and other contiguous tribes, Cambyses commanded the 
work of the City and Temple to cease. During the nine 
that followed, scarcely anything was done on the
>)
a
been the custom on 
morial, and that he would reward with a princely gift 
the successful contestant. The King then propounded the 
following question:
years
walls of Jerusalem, or the Temple.
Cambyses died and the Magians seized the throne, from 
which their usurper was driven, in a little over a year, 
Then the Seven Great Families of
“Whether Wine was not the strongest?—Whether 
Kings were not such?—Whether Women were not such, or 
whether Truth were not the strongest of all.
Esdras makes the Guards suggest both the questions and 
the prize, but we follow the story as told by Josephus.
Again the King slept, and the Guards prepared for the 
friendly contest of the following morning. When the King 
arose he sent for the Princes and Rulers to meet him in
with great slaughter.
Persia laid hold of the government, and Darius ascended 
the throne. He appointed Zerubbabel, his friend, to be 
of the Jews that had returned to Mount Zion 
of Cyrus the Great, and afterwards apguard
of the
Governor 
under the decree 
pointed him to that place of great trust—a
ll
10
Darius believed in the one God, when he 
resists 
vow to rebuild the City and Temple of Jeninalnn 8
religiously kept. “Blessed be the God of Tmih^ 
lip. of Darius purges the WM7 of «, Mrl ' “
from aL taint of Sabianiam, into which he wandLST
the Audience Chamber, and witness the contest between 
his Guards.
The contest began in time by one of the Guards de­
claiming in favor of the strength of Wine, followed by 
another in favor of the power of the King. Then the Jew, 
Zerubbabel, contended for the superemineney of Women, 
concluding with a noble deliverance in favor of Truth.
The brilliant assembly burst forth into applause when 
Zerubbabel concluded, and the King awarded him the prize,
with these words:
1 have promised, for I will give it unto you because of
your wisdom.
be
later
As Judaism 
the Illustrious 
for the Christian
IS. M.= Today,
 you and each of you are Zerubbabel 
back in time to the Court of King Darius and
preparation for Christianity, so let
was a
Order of the Red Cross be a preparation
Order of the Temple.
Ask for somewhat over and above what
l l
as we go
Founding of the New Order.
and Rulers, to perpetuate unto all ages the re- 
of this happy occasion, and the events which
7 ) the
Princes
Then “Zerubbabel put him in mind of the vow he had 
made in case he should ever have the kingdom.’’ Now this 
to rebuild Jerusalem, and to rebuild therein the
membrance
renewed our early intimacy with Zerubbabel, we pro­
found a new Order. It shall be instituted to incul- 
the almighty force and the importance of TRUTH, 
shall be forever known as 
The Illustrious Order of 
Red Cross,
 and upon you, Zerubbabel, as a further 
friendship and esteem, we will confer the 
of creating you its first member. But before we can
have 
pose to
* <
vow was
Temple of God, and also to restore the vessels which Neb­
uchadnezzar had pillaged, and carried to Babylon.”
cate
It
And behold the King was pleased to arise and to kiss 
his eloquent Guard, Zerubbabel, and to grant his request. 
Zerubbabel returned to his people in Jerusalem with great 
joy, and the rebuilding of the City and Temple was imme­
diately resumed. Darius not only kept his vow, but made 
contributions to the rebuilding out of the Royal
the
proof of 
honor
do so we must demand of you a solemn Vow to be forever 
faithful to the Laws and Regulations which we now estabrlish
for the government of that Order.
Prince Zerubbabel, you will now approach that 
Altar, on which lie a copy of the Sacred Writings of 
your people, and what we are assured are the symbols of 
your Ancient Craft.
You will knee) upon your left knee, your right knee 
forming a square, your left hand resting upon the Sacred 
Writings, Square and Compasses, and your right hand 
upon your heart. 
[Done.]
 Princes and Rulers, arise, 
and witness this Vow.
our
large 
Treasury.
The details adopted to more beautifully round out the 
drama, and more pointedly teach the lesson of the almighty 
and the importance of Truth, do not intrench upon
force
the facts of history.
The Illustrious Order of the Red Cross is not a Pagan
It is an Order
rite nor is it a mere social observance.
Truth, and is a proper preparation for the
founded upon 
solemnities of the Order of the Temple.
13
12
OPTIONAL RUBRIC
(In conferring the Illustrious Order of the Sed Cross, the Sov­
ereign Master, in administering the vow of the Order, may have the 
candidates repeat paragraph # [I], the Sovereign Master will recite 
paragraphs [SI, [5], [41, [5], [6], and the candidates will repeat 
paragraph [7].)
[All candidates must participate in the Vow.]
OBLIGATION
 OR VOW
[4] Ifpav, 
tlwvtcoatacCotO,
 wt, a 
tlwahoalo.
[5] Ifpav, 
tlwnaatfoooaCotlOot
 
RCutsbpalnrCotO,
 otrotsC, aualW.
[6] Ifpav, 
tlwnaobpatcotOuapws
 
nhrratnpDoF,
 ttbomkab.
[7] Tatlsaspav, 
wafasrtoapts,
 w 
ae, mr, 
oseomimwjbmunlapttohmhp
 
d, t t t s u a I h t; a t u t 1 t s s I b e f t 8 o a 
tacCotO, 
slekowvtmsvaaCotlOot
 
R C. S h m G, a k m s. (Or:—A 
mGkmsitdoo
 
t s.)
S. M.: Y w s "I
[1] I..................
o t U, a t w, dhah, saspav, tlwfkactsb 
ttlOotRCjtlwncttaoetatalCot
 
Ojanuhnadt, se, 
oliIsbfhletts;ow
 
t b o a r a d-e C o t I 0 o t E C,
[2] Ifpav, 
tlwstaabtRaRotooaoCo
 
tIOotRCowImhbam.
[3] Ifpav, 
tlwaaoadSarsstmbla,
 
ogmbthoatalCotO,
 
iwtdofm,
 nioua 
a e m.
M pynifaram:
.........omofwaa, itpotSA
S. M.: Arise, and 
approach
 the 
throne.
S. M.: And now, 
Zerubhabel,
 we will confer upon you 
the 
highest
 honor in our gift by 
creating
 you the first 
member
 of this new 
Order.
 You will kneel on your left 
knee.
14
15
S. M.: [Resuming his seat.]
 You will now be in­
structed in what we decree to be the attributes of this 
Order, and the
S. M.: [Raising his sceptn.]
 We now create and 
constitute you a Companion of the Illustrious Order of 
the Red Cross, which we now found; and we do hereby 
create and constitute each of the Princes and Rulers 
present a Companion of said Order.
Arise, Companion Zerubbabel, and with this hand re­
ceive a hearty welcome into this new Order, which will 
be ever ready to protect, vindicate and defend you. 
Princes and Rulers, be seated.
S. M.: [With Green Sash in hand.]
 I now invest you 
with this Green Sash, and make it the insignia of this new 
Order, which is designed to perpetuate the remembrance 
of the events that have occasioned the renewal of our 
friendship, and to inculcate the almighty force and the im­
portance of TRUTH. Let its color ever remind you that 
TRUTH is a divine attribute, and the foundation of every 
virtue. Companion Master of Infantry:—Gird Companion 
Zerubbabel.
[The Master of Infantry approaches with a belt and scabbard 
and clasps the bolt around 
Zerubbubol.]
S. M.: [Taking up Sword.]
 I now present you with this 
Sword. In the hands of a true and courteous Companion 
of this Order it will be endowed with three excellent 
qualities:—its hilt with 
Faith,
 its blade with 
Hope, its 
point with 
C
harity
.
 Let these teach you that he who 
draws his sword in a just and virtuous cause, having 
Faith
 in God, may reasonably 
Hope
 for victory, ever re­
membering to extend 
C
harity to a fallen foe. Return it 
to its scabbard. [Done.] There let it remain until con­
sumed by rust, rather than draw it in the cause of In­
justice, Falsehood, or Oppression, for 
J
ustice
, T
ruth
, 
and L
iderty are the Grand Characteristics of this Illus­
trious Order.
MEANS OF RECOGNITION
among its members. These are:
[1] TJP.
[2] T P C, w i t o t R.
[3] T R C W.
[4]
 T S, G, a W o a C o t I 0 o t R C.
Companion Master of Cavalry. You will communicate 
these as we direct.
[Master of Cavalry takes position in front of 
Zerubbabel.]
S. M.: Draw, 
Swords.
 TJPigwtcotS. 
Guard. 
Give cuts. 
[Done.]
 IigoaAoS, wysnf. Aylfa 
ptbeo;pylhoeors. TPiJ, atRiB. TCcwa 
g t P, a, i c, t C c w g t R. Communicate. 
[Done.] Carry, 
Swords.
S. M.: TPCigwfcotS. 
G
uard
.
 Give cuts [Done.]
 
—a uaaoswysnf. Aylfaptbeojpylhoeo 
rs. T C i T, a t R i S-b. TCcwagtCT, a, ic, t
16 17
TIIE BANNER OF THE ORDER
S. M.: The Banner of this Order shall be of green 
In its centre there shall be a Star of seven points,
color.
within which shall be a Red Cross of equal arras and 
angles, surrounded by the Motto, 
Magna est Veritas, et 
praevalebit,—“
Great is Truth, and it will prevail.
The Cross shall be the emblem of this Order, the four 
indicating Deity, Truth, Justice, Liberty. These
I I
C e w g t R, S-b. 
Communicate. [Done.] Carry, Swords.
S. M.: TRCWigitsmwfcots. 
Guard.
 Give cuts. 
[Done.]
 Aylfjpylhoeors. TWiV, a t R i T. 
Communicate. [Done.] Carry, Swords.
S. M.: TS, G, aWoaCotRCagwtcotS, aat, 
wbtpotsteols, nth.
[1] T S i g a f e. 
Guard. Give one cut. [Done.] I i 1 
t w o a t, t. Give the Sign. 
[Done.]
[2] T G i g a t t e. G s a t c. 
[Done.]
 A 11 f a p t 
b e o. I t f o y 1 h. 
[Done.]
 Tsts, arifuef 
a s. [Done.]
 Nbposteols, nth. 
[Done.]
 T W i L, 
t R i L. Tswigirttf. 
Communicate. [Done.] 
Carry, Swords. Return, Swords.
arms
will commemorate our faith in God, and in the Grand 
Characteristics of this Illustrious Order.
[All candidates will give the sign when retiring.] 
END, OPTIONAL SHORT CEREMONY
FULL 
CEREMONIAL
S. M.: Companion Warder:—Ascertain if any Can­
didate is in waiting for the Illustrious Order of the Red 
Cross.
[Warder ascertains from Sentinel, and reports.]
a Royal
W.: Sovereign Master:—Companion 
Arch Mason, is in waiting to receive the Illustrious
Order of the Red Cross.
S. M.: Companion Master of Dispatches:—Has the 
Candidate complied with the Statutes?
M. D.: Tie has, Sovereign Master.
S. M.: Companions, if there be no objection we will 
confer the Illustrious Order of the Red Cross upon 
[Pause.] There being no objection,
[Master of Cavalry resumes his station.]
S. M.: On entering or retiring from a Council of the 
Red Cross, you will advance to the centre of the Chamber, 
face the Sovereign Master, and give the Sign. It alludes 
to the Penalty of your Vow, where reference is made to 
the sound of the last trump.
Companion
19
18
Companion Master of Infantry:—Retire and prepare 
Companion
W.: Who comes here? 
C. C.: Companion... , who, having reeeived all
for reception into this Order.
S. M.: Let the Grand Council be formed in the Coun- the necessary preceding degrees of Freemasonry, now 
solicits the honor of being admitted to the Grand Council. 
Await the order of the Excellent High Priest. 
[Inside.] Excellent High Priest:—The alarm
, who, having received
cil Hall, under the direction of our Excellent High Priest.
W.:
[The Grand Council will be formed in the apartment intended 
for that purpose, thus: The High Priest goes thither, puts on his 
robes and takes his seat on the dais. The Warder, and a sufficient 
number to form the Council, accompany him, and all put on Jewish 
robes. Warder takes station near the door, and the Companions 
take seats in equal numbers on each side, in front of the High 
Priest, and face inward. The Master of Infantry and Candidate 
go to Preparation room. The Master of Infantry, who now be­
comes and will be styled, “Companion Conductor,” will say to 
the Candidate:]
C. C.: 
ductor.
when necessary, and answer for you such questions as 
you may not be able to answer for yourself.
[When all is in readiness.]
H. P.: SQB l® Companions, by virtue of the power 
in me vested, I now declare this Grand Council open. 
Companion Warder:—You will so proclaim.
W.: [Opening door so that the Candidate may hear.] 
By order of the Excellent High Priest, I proclaim the 
Grand Council now open. [Closes door and resumes sta­
tion.]
H. P.: Companions, the Grand Council is in session, ijl
[Having prepared the Candidate by clothing him as a Royal 
Arch Mason, the Companion Conductor makes an alarm >Ji ijnifi 
*** *]
W.: Excellent High Priest:—There is an alarm.
H. P.: Companion Warder:—Attend to the alarm. 
[Warder opens door and enters Preparing Room.]
W.:
caused by Companion
was
all the necessary preceding degrees of Freemasonry, 
solicits the honor of being admitted to the Grand
now 
Council.
H. P.: Admit him.
[Opening door.] You have permission to enter.
W.:
[Companion Conductor and Candidate enter and take position, 
standing at foot of Council opposite the High Priest.]
Companion, I am now to become your Con- 
I will, therefore, represent you, speak for you
20 21
HIGH PRIEST’S ADDRESS READING FOR HIGH PRIEST
Now in the second month of the second
High Priest [Reads]: 
of their coming into the house of God at Jerusalem, Zerubhnbel,
year
jesliun, and the remnant of their brethren, the priests and the Le- 
vites over 20 years of age and all those who were in captivity, com­
menced the rebuilding of the house of the Lord which NebuchadnezCompanions,
the Council here assembled represents the 
Grand Council convened at Jerusalem in the second year 
of the reign of Darius, King of Persia, to deliberate upon 
the unhappy condition of the country, and to devise 
means whereby they might secure the favor and protec­
tion of the new Sovereign, and obtain his consent to their 
proceeding with the rebuilding of the City and Temple.
After the death of Cyrus, the Jews, whom he liber­
ated and sent back to Jerusalem, were forbidden by 
Cambyses, his son and successor, to continue the work 
of rebuilding, and at the time this Council was convened 
the work had ceased during several years.
Zerubbabel, the royal Prince of the House of Judah, 
participated in the deliberations of that Council, and 
we have admitted you to this presence in expectation 
that you will assume the name and represent the char­
acter of that illustrious Prince, whose hands laid the 
foundation of the Second Temple, and whose hands the 
Lord promised should finish it.
Are you willing to assume his name, represent his 
character, and participate in the deliberations of this 
Council?
Candidate: I am.
H. P. Zerubbabel, you will then be seated with your 
Companions, and the Council will give attention to the 
reading of a Lesson from the records of our fathers.
zar bad destroyed.
Under the direction of Jeshua and Kadmiel the foundation of 
the Temple was laid amidst the sound of trumpets and cymbals, and 
praising the Lord according to the ordinance of King David. And 
nil the people shouted with a. great shout, and they sang togother 
in praising and giving thunks to the Lord because He is good, for 
His mercy endureth forever toward Israel.
When the adversaries of Judah and Benjamin heard that the 
children of the captivity were building the temple unto the Lord 
God of Israol, they came to Zerubbnhel and asked permission to 
assist in the work, saying Let us build with you; for we Beck
f f
your God as yc do and we do sacrifice unto him since the days of 
Esar-Haddon, King of Assur, which brought us up hither,” but
they are refused because King Cyrus ordered the work to be done by 
the Jews.
They thereupon engaged in a campaign of harassment and false 
accusations which continued until the death of King Cyrus. Cyrus 
was succeeded by his son Cambyses who reigned for nine years, and 
during that period little or 
Jerusalem or the Temple.
When Artaxerxes ascended the throne, Rehum the chancellor and 
Shimshai the scribe wrote to him in the Syrian language saying 
that if Jerusalem be builded again, the Jews would no longer pay 
toll, tribute, and custom and thus endanger the revenue of the 
king.
nothing was done on the walls of
Artaxerxes answered the letter by issuing an order that the city
When King Artaxerxes ’
not be builded and that all work cease, 
letter was read before Rehum and Shimshai and their companions, 
they went quickly to Jerusalem unto the Jews and made them erase
[Companion Conductor and Zerubbabel take seats with 
Council.]
by force and power.
22
23
And so all work ceased until the second year of the reign of 
Darius, King of Persia, a period of fifteen years after the Jews 
laid the foundation of the second temple.
[Excerpts from Ezra, Chapters 3 and 4.]
END OF 
READING
You see, Companions, how our enemies have 
made false accusations against us, hired counsellors, 
and finally by force and power have caused the work 
entirely to cease. If any Companion has a suggestion 
to make as to how we may obtain the favor and protec­
tion of the new Sovereign, let him now speak.
[Companion
 
Conductor
 and 
Zerubbabel
 arise, and 
Companion
 
Conductor
 speaks for 
Zerubbabel.]
Excellent High Priest, our Sovereign Lord, 
Darius the King, having ascended the throne of Persia, 
our people are inspired with new hopes of securing his 
protection and support in the noble and glorious work 
of rebuilding the City and Temple. For, while in private 
life, Darius made a vow to God that, should he ever 
ascend the throne of Persia, he would rebuild Jerusalem 
and its Temple, and restore all the holy vessels remain­
ing in Babylon.
Having been formerly honored with the favorable 
notice, and even friendship, of the King, I now with con­
fidence offer my services to this Council. I will cheer­
fully undertake the hazardous enterprise of traversing 
the Persian dominions and of seeking admission to the 
presence of the King. Should I be successful, I will em­
brace the first favorable opportunity to remind him of 
his vow, and impress upon his mind the almighty force 
and the importance of TRUTH. Well knowing his piety, 
integrity, and reverence for sacred things, I entertain no
doubt of securing his consent to our enemies being driven 
away, so that we shall be no longer hindered or impeded 
in our noble and glorious work.
H. P.: Companions, you have heard the generous offe
r 
of Zerubbabel. Do you accept?
Council: [Cheerfully.]
 We do.
H. P-: [Rising.] Companion Zerubbabel, this Coun­
cil with joy accepts your noble and generous offer, and 
I will forthwith invest you with the necessary passports 
by which you can make yourself known to the friends 
of our cause, wherever you may meet them. But before 
confiding to you so important a mission, one of vital in­
terest to our cause, I must require of you a solemn pledge 
to be faithful to the trust we are about to repose in you. 
If you are willing to make such a pledge, place your right 
hand on your heart, and answer me truly:
I. Do you, on your honor as a Royal Arch Mason, 
and in the presence of God and these witnesses, declare 
that you will be forever faithful to the trust we are about 
to repose in you?
I do.
2. Do you solemnly promise to keep inviolable our 
secrets, and to maintain the honor of this Council even 
at peril of your liberty and life?
Z.: I do.
H. P.: Having knowledge of your former obligations, 
and confidence in your present declarations, I will invest 
with a sword. Let Zerubbabel be girded.
belt, with 
scabbard
 
attached,
(See pages 174-175).
H. P.:
C. C.:
Z.:
you
[Companion
 
Conductor
 
clasps
 
around
 
Zerubbabel.]
H. P.: [Handing
 
Zerubbabel
 a 
sward.] Receive this 
sword. Its glittering blade should symbolize the purity 
of your intentions. With it you will be able to defend
24 25
[High Priest and Council doff robes, and return to the Audie 
Chamber.]
yourself against your enemies, and maintain the Truth. 
I will now invest you with this Green Sash. [Places 
Sash over Zembbabel’s neck and across his body under 
his left arm.\ Accept it as a peculiar mark of our 
esteem. Wear it as a perpetual incentive to the per­
formance of every duty, and rest assured that the 
memory of him who falls in a just and virtuous cause is 
blessed, and will forever flourish in immortal green.
The Companion Warder will now invest you with the 
Jewish Pass.
JOURNEY
First Guard: Halt! Who comes there?
Z.: A friend.
First Guard: Advance, friend, and give the Pass. 
[Gives Jewish Pass.]
First Guard: Correct. Pass on.
[Same colloquy with Second Guard as with First Guard.]
C. C.: [At the Bridge.] Zerubbabel, you have now 
reached the river that forms the boundary line between 
our own country and the realm of Darius, the King. I 
can accompany you no farther. *Over this Bridge you 
must pass alone and pursue your journey without escort. 
Farewell! God speed your hazardous undertaking.
’[When Commanderies have Banners, the following may be 
inserted: ]
On this side you perceive the Jewish Banner, on the 
other the Persian Banner.
[Zerubbabel crosses the Bridge and meets Persian Guard. Other 
guards nearby.]
P. Gd.: Halt! Who comes there?
Z.: A friend.
P. Gd.: Advance, friend, and give the Countersign.
[Persian Guard will command a repetition of the Countersign, 
which Zerubbabel attempts to give, with a harsh What? after 
second effort. Then: ]
P. Gd.: Ho Guards! An enemy! A spy! Seize him! 
Disarm him!
Z.:
W.: [Draws Sword and goes to Zerubbabel.] C, t P i g 
w t c o t s, t:—A y r f. [Cuts given.] I i g o a A o S, 
wosnf. Aylf, pylhomrs, alpmoy. TPi 
J, a t R i B. TCcwagtP, a, ic, tCcwagtR. 
Carry, Swords. [Warder returns to his station.]
H. P.: Zerubbabel, you are now prepared for your 
hazardous journey. When dangers threaten, remember 
that your cause is just, and that you are armed with a 
trusty sword. Should occasion demand its use, be valiant, 
yet prudent. May the God of our fathers protect you, 
and speed you on your way.
C.C.: Zerubbabel, follow me.
[Companion Conductor and Zerubbabel start on journey. Be­
fore reaching Guards, Companion Conductor instructs Zerubbabel 
what answer to make when challenged.]
I now declare this Grand Council
H. P. : 
closed. 27
26
What is your name?
[Guards rush to Zerubbabel, seize him and deprive him of his 
The Companion Conductor moves to his side 
and acts as the mouthpiece of the prisoner.]
W-:
C. C.: Zerubbabel.
W.: What is your desire?
C. C.: An audience with the King.
W.: Your request shall be made known to his Majesty.
sword and sash.
C. C.: Why treat me thus? Why this violence? I 
am neither an enemy nor a spy.
P. Gd.: Who are you, then?
C. C.: A Prince of the House of Judah, the first 
among my equals,—and a Mason.
P. G.: You - a - Prince - of - the - House - of - Judah! 
Where are you from?
C. C.: Jerusalem.
P. Gd.: What is your name?
G. C.: Zerubbabel.
P. Gd.: What do you desire?
C. C.: An audience with your Sovereign.
P. Gd.: Only as captive and slave can you approach 
his Majesty.
C. C.: Then lead me to his presence.
P. Gd.: Guards, clothe him in the garb of slavery, 
and bind him in fetters. [Done.]
P. Gd.: Captive and slave, follow me.
P. Gd.: [At Chamber door.] Ijojdji (jojojl
W.: [Salutes.]
 Sovereign Master:—There is an alarm.
S. M.: Companion Warder:—Attend to the alarm.
W.: [Outside.] Who comes heret
P. Gd.: A detachment of his Majesty’s guards, who 
have made captive of one whom they suspect to be an 
enemy and a spy.
Who is he?
[Inside, Salutes.]
 Sovereign Master:—The alarm 
caused by a detachment of your Majesty’s guards, who
W.:
was
have brought hither one whom they suspect to be an 
enemy and a spy.
S. M.: Who is he?
He claims to be a Prince of the House of Judah, 
the first among his equals, and a Mason.
S. M.: Where is he from?
W.:
W.: Jerusalem.
S. M.: What is his name?
W.: Zerubbabel.
S. M.: [Surprised.]
 Zerubbabel! What does he de­
sire?
W.: An audience with your Majesty.
S. M.: Companion Master of Cavalry:—
[Master of 
Cavalry arises. Salutes
.] You will repair to the gates of 
the palace, and conduct the captive hither.
M. C.: [Outside.] Is he armed?
P. Gd.: He is not.
M. C.: Then follow me.
[Master of Cavalry now takes command of the Guards, who, 
with the captive, enter the palace. They halt before the Sov­
ereign Master. Sword and sash are carried into the palace 
by one of the Guards.]
M. C.: [Saluting.]
 Sovereign Master:—I have brought 
hither the captive.
W.:
P. Gd.: He claims to be a Prince of the House of 
Judah, the first among his equals, and a Mason.
W.: [To 
Zerubbabel.] Where are you from?
C. C.: Jerusalem.
29
28
S. M.: [Scrutinizing Zerubbabel.] This is no enemy! 
It is indeed Zerubbabel, the friend and companion of 
my youth.
Zerubbabel, having gained admittance to our presence, 
we command that you forthwith declare the particular 
motive that induced you, without our permission, to 
pass the confines of our dominions.
C. C.: 0 King! Live forever! The tears and com­
plaints of my companions at Jerusalem have brought me 
hither. My people were liberated by King Cyrus, and 
commanded to “build the house of the Lord God of Israel, 
which is in Jerusalem.
Cambyses, the work ceased, and our adversaries on the 
other side of the river have ever since hindered and im­
peded our noble and glorious efforts to rebuild the City 
and Temple of our God.
Therefore have I come hither to implore your Majesty’s 
favor and protection. And I now beseech thee, 0 King, 
to restore me to thy confidence and esteem, and grant 
me admission among the servants of the royal household, 
until it shall please your Majesty to give me audience 
in behalf of my people.
S. M.: Zerubbabel, I have often reflected with much 
pleasure upon our early intimacy and friendship. I have 
also learned with great satisfaction of your fame as a 
wise and accomplished Freemason. Having long enter­
tained a profound veneration for that ancient and honor­
able Institution, and a sincere desire to become a mem­
ber thereof, I will at once grant your request, and confer 
upon you one of the principal offices of our household, 
on condition that you reveal to me the secrets of Free­
masonry.
C. C.: Sovereign Master, when our Most Excellent 
Grand Master, Solomon, King of Israel, governed the 
Craft, he taught that “TRUTH is a divine attribute, and 
the foundation of every virtue.” To be good men and 
true is the first lesson taught us in Masonry. My en­
gagements are sacred and inviolable; I cannot reveal our 
secrets. If I can obtain your Majesty’s clemency only 
at the sacrifice of my integrity, then I humbly decline the 
royal appointment, and cheerfully will I submit to exile, 
even death.
S. M.: Zerubbabel, your virtue and integrity are truly 
commendable, and your fidelity to your engagements 
worthy of imitation. From this moment you are free. 
[May extend sceptre.] Guards: [Two Guards step 
right and left of Zerubbabel.] Strike off those chains! 
[Sovereign Master pauses until Guards remove fetters.] 
Remove that garb of slavery! [Bone.] May these never 
again disgrace so pure a Mason, so noble a Prince.
S. M.: Prince Master of the Palace:—Bring forth a 
royal robe, and clothe Zerubbabel in habiliments befitting 
his rank.
P. M. P.: [Putting robe and coronet on Zerubbabel.] 
Thus shall it be done unto the man whom the King de- 
lighteth to honor. [This may be sung.]
S. M.: Zerubbabel, we greet thee, and assign thee a 
place in our household.
[Master of the Palace conducts Zerubbabel to a seat near the 
throne.]
or
But, by command of King
y y
30
31
tion you have made to our question, and it shall have 
consideration.
Princes and Rulers, let the discussion now begin. 
Prince Chancellor, are you prepared to maintain your 
opinion by argument? If so, begin.
P. C.: [Arises, bows.]
 0 ye Princes and Rulers, 
how exceedingly strong is 
Wine
 ! It causeth all men to 
err that drink it; it maketh the mind of the king and 
the beggar to be all one; of the bondman and the freeman, 
of the poor man and of the rich; it turneth also every 
thought into jollity and mirth, so that a man remem- 
bereth neither sorrow nor debt; it changeth and elevateth 
the spirits, and enliveneth the heavy hearts of the miser­
able. It maketh a man forget his brethren, and draw 
his swoi’d against his best friends. 0 ye Princes and 
Rulers, is not 
Wine
 the strongest, that forceth us to do 
these things?
S. M.:
chosen, 
to defend your position?
P. M. P.: 
[Arises, bows.]
 It is beyond dispute, 
0 Princes and Rulers, that God has made man master 
of all things under the sun; to command them, to make 
use of them, and apply them to his service as he pleases; 
but whereas men have only dominion over other sublunary 
creatures, 
Kings
 have an authority even over men them­
selves, and a right of ruling them by will and pleasure. 
Now, he that is master of those who are masters of all 
things else, hath no earthly thing above him.
S. M.: Prince Master of the Palace, your argument is 
both pleasing and forcible, being well-calculated to main­
tain the dignity of the throne. And now, Prince
THE IMMEMORIAL DISCUSSION
S. M.: From time immemorial it has been the custom 
of the Sovereigns of this realm, on occasions like the 
present, to propose certain topics for consideration, and 
to bestow princely gifts upon the one found wisest in 
the discussion. In conformity to that custom I now pro­
pose the following question, with the assurance that he 
who gives the most satisfactory answer shall be suitably 
rewarded.
Which is the greatest:—
The strength of Wine,
The power of the. King, or 
The influence of Woman?
Prince Chancellor, what say you?
P. C.: [Arises, bows.]
 Sovereign Master, it is the opinion 
of your Chancellor that the strength of Wine is the 
greatest.
S. M.: Prince Master of the Palace, what is your 
opinion?
P. M. P.: [
Arises, boivs.]
 Sovereign Master, it is the
opinion of your Master of the Palace that the power of the 
King is the greatest.
S. M.: Prince Zerubbabel, have you an opinion to
Prince Chancellor, your argument is well- 
Prince Master of the Palace, are you prepared
offer?
C. C.: [Companion
 
Conductor
 and 
Zerubbabel
 arise 
and 
bow.] I have, your Majesty. In my humble opinion 
the influence of Woman is greater than the strength of 
Wine, or the power of the King, but above all things 
TRUTH beareth away the victory.
S. II.: Sayest thou that TRUTH beareth away the 
Prince Zerubbabel, that is an important addivictory!3332Zerubbabel, we will hear the reason for your opinion, and 
for the important addition you have made to our question.
C. C.: [Arises with Zerubbabel and both bow.] 0 Princes 
and Rulers, the force of Wine is not to be denied; neither 
is that of Kings, that unites so many men in one common 
bond of allegiance; but the supereminency of Woman is 
yet above all this; for Kings are but the gifts of Women, 
and they are also the mothers of those that cultivate our 
vineyards. Women have the power to make us abandon 
very country and relations, and many times to forget 
the best friends we have in the world, and, forsaking all 
other comforts, to live and die with them. But when all 
is said, neither they, nor Wine, nor Kings, are comparable 
to the almighty force of TRUTH. As for all other things, 
they are mortal and transient, but TRUTH alone is un­
changeable and everlasting; the benefits we receive from 
it are subject to no variations or vicissitudes of time or 
fortune. In her judgment is no unrighteousness, and she 
is the strength, wisdom, power, and majesty of all ages. 
BLESSED BE THE GOD OP TRUTH.
C. C.: 0 King, remember thy vow, which thou hast
vowed, to build Jerusalem in the day when thou shouldest 
come to thy kingdom, and to restore the holy vessels 
which were taken away out of Jerusalem. Thou hast 
also vowed to build up the Temple, which was burned 
when Judah was made desolate by the Chaldees. And 
now, 0 King, this is that I desire of thee, that thou make 
good the vow, the performance whereof, with thine own 
mouth, thou hast vowed to the King of heaven.
S. M.: Prince Zerubbabel, it shall be done. We will 
faithfully fulfill our vow. Passports shall be issued to 
you, and orders given to all our Officers throughout the 
realm, that they give you, and those who may desire to 
accompany you, safe conduct back to Jerusalem. There 
you shall be no longer hindered or impeded in the re­
building of your City and Temple. We will also send 
back to Jerusalem all the holy vessels remaining in 
Babylon.
And behold we do make a Decree. Master of Dis­
patches :—Read aloud that Decree.
M. D.: [Reads Decree.]
Moreover, I make a decree what ye shall do to the elders of 
these Jews for the building of this house of God: that of the 
king’s goods, even of the tribute beyond the river, forthwith 
penses be given unto these men, that they be not hindered.
And that which they have need of, both young bullocks, and 
rums, and lambs, for the burnt-offerings of the God of heaven, 
wheat, salt, wine, and oil, according to the appointment of the 
priests which are at Jerusalem, let it be given them day by day 
without fail:
That they may offer sacrifices of sweet savours unto the God 
of heaven, and pray for the life of the king, and of his
Also I have made a decree, that whosoever shall alter this 
word, let timber be pulled down from his house, and being set up,
our
[When Companion Conductor concludes, the Prince Chancellor 
and Prince Master of the Palace will arise and exclaim:]
t l
P. C. and P. M. P.: [Together.] Great is TRUTH and 
mighty above all things!
S. M.: [Rising and lifting crown.]
THE GOD OF TRUTH!”
[Sovereign Master, Prince Chancellor, and Prince Master of 
the Palace resume their seats.]
S. M.: Zerubbabel, ask what thou wilt, and we will 
give it thee, because thou art found wisest among thy 
companions.
exBLESSED
BE
( t
sons.
34 35
your people, and what we are assured are the symbols of 
your Ancient Craft.
You will kneel upon your left knee, your right knee 
forming a square, your left hand resting upon the Sacred 
Writings, Square and Compasses, and your right hand 
upon your heart. [Done.] Princes and Rulers, arise, 
and witness this Vow.
[All Candidates must participate in the vow.]
let him be hanged thereon; and let his house be made a dunghill 
for this.
And the God that hath caused his name to dwell there destroy 
all kings and people, that shall put to their hand to alter and 
to destroy this house of God which is at Jerusalem. I Darius 
have made a decree; let it be done with speed.” (Ezra 6:8-12. King 
James Version).
[The Companion Conductor now becomes .Master of Infantry.]
FOUNDING THE NEW ORDER
S. M.: Princes and Rulers, to perpetuate unto all 
ages the remembrance of this happy occasion, and the 
events which have renewed our early intimacy with 
Zerubbabel, we propose to found a new Order, 
be instituted to inculcate the almighty force and the im­
portance of TRUTH. It shall be forever known as The 
Illustrious Order op1 the Red Cross, and upon you, 
Zerubbabel, as a further proof of our friendship' and 
esteem, we will confer the honor of creating you its 
first member. But before we can do so we must de­
mand of you a solemn Vow to be forever faithful to the 
Laws and Regulations which we now establish for the 
government of that Order.
Companion Master of Finance:—Bring forth from the 
Treasury the Altar of Masonry that was brought out of 
Jerusalem.
[Master of Finance bringB an Altar, on which is an open Bible 
with Square and Compasses displayed, and places it in front of 
the Sovereign Master.]
S. M.: Prince Zerubbabel, you will now approach that 
Altar, on which lie a copy of the Sacred Writings of
It shall
OBLIGATION OR VOW
S. M.:
[1] Omofwaa, itpotSAotU, atw, dha 
h, saspav, tlwfkactsbttlOotRC; 
tlwncttaoetatalCotOjanuhuad 
t, s e, o 1 i I s h f h 1 e t t sj o w t b o a r a d 
cCotlOotRC.
[2] Ifpav, tlwstaabtRaRotooaoC 
otIOotRCowImhbam.
[3] Ifpav, tlwaaoadSarsstmbla, 
ogmbthoat
Yws“I”, pynifars:
36
37
ICotO, iwtdofm, nion aaem. S. M.: And now, Zerubbabel, we will confer upon you 
the highest honor in our gift by creating you the first 
member of this new Order. You will kneel on your left 
knee.
S. M.: [Raising his sceptre.] We now create and 
constitute you a Companion of the Illustrious Order of 
the Red Cross, which we now found; and we do hereby 
create and constitute each of the Princes and Rulers 
present a Companion of said Order.
Arise, Companion Zerubbabel, and with this hand re­
ceive a hearty welcome into this new Order, which will 
be ever ready to protect, vindicate and defend you. 
Princes and Rulers, be seated.
S. M.: [With Green Sash in hand.] This Green Sash, 
of which you were deprived by our guards, we now re­
store, and make it the insignia of this new Order, which 
is designed to perpetuate the remembrance of the events 
that have occasioned the renewal of our friendship, and 
to inculcate the almighty force and the importance of 
TRUTH. Let its color ever remind you that TRUTH 
is a divine attribute, and the foundation of every virtue. 
Companion Master of Infantry:—Gird Companion 
Zerubbabel.
a
[4] Ifpav, tlwvtcoatacCotO, wt, a 
tlwahoalo.
[5] Ifpav, tlwnaatf oooaCotlOot 
RCutsbpalnrCotO, otrotsC, aualW.
[6] Ifpav, tlwnaobpatcotOuapws 
nhrratnpDoF, ttbomkab.
Repeat after me:
[7] Tatlsaspav, wafas rtoapts, wae, 
;bmunlapttohmhpd,
mr, oseomimw 
tttsuaIht;atutltssIbeftsoatae 
CotO, slekowvtmsvaaCotl OotRC. 
S h m G, a k m s.
[The Master of Infantry, who has put on his Red Cross Uni­
form, approaches with a belt and scabbard and clasps the belt 
around Zerubbabel.]
S. M.: [Taking up Sword.] This sword, of which you 
were deprived by our guards, we also restore. In the 
hands of a true and courteous Companion of this Order it 
will be endowed with three excellent qualities: its hilt 
with Faith, its blade with Hope, its point with Charity. 
Let these teach you that he who draws his sword in a just
S. M.: Arise, and approach the throne.
39
38
and virtuous cause, having Faith in God, may reasonably 
Hope for victory, ever remembering to extend Charity to 
a fallen foe. Return it to its scabbard. [Bone.] There 
let it remain until consumed by rust, rather than draw it 
in the cause of Injustice, Falsehood, or Oppression, for 
Justice, Truth, and Liberty are the Grand Characteris­
tics of this Illustrious Order.
S. M.: [Resuming his seat.] You will now be in­
structed in what we decree to be the attributes of this 
Order, and the
g t R, S-b. Communicate. [Done.] Carry, Swords.
S. M.: TRCWigitsmwfeots. Guard. Give 
cuts. [Done.] Aylf;pylhoeors. TWi V, a t R i T. 
Communicate. [Done.] Carry, Swords.
S. M.: TS, G, aWoaCotRCagwtcots, aat, 
^btpotsteols, nth.
[1] T S i g a f c. Guard. Give one cut. [Done.] lilt 
w o a t, t, Give the sign. [Done.]
[2] TGigatte. Give second and third cuts. [Done.] 
A t 1 f a p t b e o. Itfoylh. [Done.] T s t s, a 
r i f u e f a s. [Done.] Nbposteols, nth. [Done.] 
T W i L, t R i L. Tswigirttf. Communicate. 
[Done.] Carry, Swords, Return, Swords.
w
MEANS OF RECOGNITION
among its members. These are:
[1] T J P, i w y h a b i.
[2] T P C, w i t o t R.
[3] T R C W.
[4] T S, G, a W o a C o t I 0 o t R C.
Companion Master of Cavalry:—You will communicate
these as we direct.
[Master of Cavalry takes position in front of Zerubbabel.]
S. M.: Draw, Swords. TPCigwfcots. Guard. 
Give cuts [Done.]—a uaaoswysnf. Aylfaptbe 
ojpylhoeors. 
g t C T, a, i c, t C c
T C c w a
T C i T, a t R i S-b. [Master of Cavalry resumes his station.]
S. M.: On entering or retiring from a Council of the 
Red Cross, you will advance to the centre of the Chamber, 
face the Sovereign Master, and give the Sign. It alludes 
to the Penalty of your Vow, where reference is made to 
the sound of the last trump.
40 41
THE BANNER OF THE ORDER
S. M.: The Banner of this Order shall be of green 
color. In its centre there shall be a Star of seven points, 
within which shall be a Red Cross of equal arms and 
angles, surrounded by the Motto, Magna est Veritas, et 
praevalebit,—“Great is Truth, and it will prevail.
The Cross shall be the emblem of this Order, the four 
arms indicating Deity, Truth, Justice, Liberty. These 
will commemorate our faith in God, and in the Grand 
Characteristics of this Illustrious Order.
HISTORICAL LECTURE
[Sovereign Masters will frequently find it instructive to the 
candidate and edifying to the members to explain the cere­
monials. The following is suggested as helpful to such an ex­
planation : ]
The Scriptures inform us that for their sins, and those 
of their forefathers, the Jewish people were led into 
captivity by Nebuzar-adan, Captain of the Guard of 
Nebuchadnezzar, King of Babylon. As slaves they tilled 
the valley of the Euphrates and of the Tigris, until Cyrus 
destroyed the Chaldean dynasty.
During that captivity Zerubbabel, Crown Prince of 
the House of Judah, and Darius, son of Hystaspes, formed 
an alliance of friendship which was probably terminated 
only with death.
One of the first acts of Cyrus was the liberation of the 
Jewish captives. He then permitted them to return to 
Judea, that they might rebuild the City of Jerusalem, 
and its Temple, which Nebuchadnezzar had destroyed.
The foundation of the Second Temple was laid five 
hundred and thirty-five years before Christ; Zerubbabel, 
the Royal Prince, Jeshua, the High Priest, and Haggai, 
the Prophet, laying the same.
Cyrus died, and his son, Cambyses, succeeded him on 
the Medo-Persian throne. On complaint of the Cutheans, 
and other contiguous tribes, Cambyses commanded the 
work of the City and Temple to cease. During the nine 
years that followed, scarcely anything was done on the 
walls of Jerusalem, or the Temple.
n
THE WELCOME
[Going to Zerubbabel and taking his hmd.] 
, we bid you welcome to
S. M.:
And now, Companion 
all the privileges of an Order founded upon TRUTH. 
Receive the congratulations of your Companions, and be
seated among them.
[The Companion is welcomed by the members.] 
END, PULL CEREMONIAL
43
42
'
“Whether Wine was not the strongest?—Whether Kings 
were not such?—Whether Women were not such, or 
whether Truth were not the strongest of all?
Esdras makes the Guards suggest both the questions 
and the prize, but we follow the story as told by Josephus.
Again the King slept, and the Guards prepared for the 
friendly contest of the following morning. When the 
King arose he sent for the Princes and Rulers to meet 
him in the Audience Chamber, and witness the contest 
between his Guards.
The contest began in time by one of the Guards de­
claiming in favor of the strength of Wine, followed by 
another in favor of the power of the King. Then the Jew, 
Zerubbabel, contended for the supereminency of Women, 
concluding with a noble deliverance in favor of Truth.
The brilliant assembly burst forth into applause when 
Zerubbabel concluded, and the King awarded him the prize, 
with these words: ‘ ‘ Ask for somewhat over and above
what I have promised, for I will give it unto you because 
of your wisdom.
Then “Zerubbabel put him in mind of the vow he had 
made in case he should ever have the kingdom.” Now 
this vow was “to rebuild Jerusalem, and to rebuild therein 
the Temple of God, and also to restore the vessels which 
Nebuchadnezzar had pillaged and carried to Babylon.
And behold the King was pleased to arise and to kiss 
his eloquent Guard, Zerubbabel, and to grant his request. 
Zerubbabel returned to his people in Jerusalem with great 
joy, and the rebuilding of the City and Temple was imme­
diately resumed. Darius not only kept his vow, but made 
large contributions to the rebuilding out of the Royal 
Treasury.
Cambyses died and the Magians seized the throne, from 
which their usurper was driven, in a little over a year, 
with great slaughter. Then the Seven Great Families of 
Persia laid hold of the government, and Darius ascended 
the throne. He appointed Zerubbabel, his friend, to be 
Governor of the Jews that had returned to Mount Zion 
under the decree of Cyrus the Great, and afterwards ap­
pointed him to that place of great trust—a Guard of 
the Royal Bed-chamber—for the protection of the person 
of the King. There were three of these Guards, and they 
were chosen by the Monarch because of his implicit con­
fidence in their loyalty.
Fifteen years after the Jews had laid the foundation of 
the Second Temple (520 B.C.) they were forced to call 
a Grand Council to consult about the state of the coun­
try. Cambyses was dead, and the Magian usurper, 
Smerdis, had been driven from the throne, to give place 
to Darius, son of Hystaspes, whose favoring of the Jews 
was believed to be almost as marked as that of the Great 
Cyrus.
Darius spread a feast at his capitol, and invited thereto 
the Princes and Rulers of the realm. That feast was thor­
oughly enjoyed, and at its close “they every one departed 
to bed at their own house, and Darius the King went to 
bed.
9 9
) 9
7 9
1 9
The King slept lightly, and awaking he fell into con­
versation with his Three Guards. He suggested, as a part 
of the festivities of the morrow, that they three engage 
in a public discussion of some interesting question, as 
had been the custom on similar occasions from time 
immemorial, and that he would reward with a princely 
gift the successful contestant. The King then propounded 
the following question:
45
44
The details adopted to more beautifully round out the 
drama, and more pointedly teach the lesson of the al­
mighty force and the importance of Truth, do not in­
trench upon the facts of history.
The Illustrious Order of the Red Cross is not a Pagan 
rite, nor is it a mere social observance. It is an Order 
founded upon Truth, and is a proper preparation for the 
solemnities of the Order of the Temple.
Darius believed in the one God when he registered a 
vow to rebuild the City and Temple of Jerusalem, a vow 
he religiously kept. “Blessed be the God of Truth,” on 
the lips of Darius, purges the memory of his early reign 
from all taint of Sabianism, into which he wandered in 
later life.
As Judaism was a preparation for Christianity, so let 
the Illustrious Order of the Red Cross be a preparation 
for the Christian Order of the Temple.
END OF THE ILLUSTRIOUS ORDER OF THE RED CROSS.
CLOSING
S. M.: Prince Master of the Palace:—I am about 
to close this Council. See that the Sentinel is informed.
P. M. P.: Companion Warder:—Inform the Sentinel 
that the Sovereign Master is about to close this Council, 
and direct him to guard accordingly.
[Warder informs Sentinel, doses the door, and raps SB®© 
® gB. ® which are repeated by the Sentinel on the outside. 
Warder resumes his station.]
W.: Prince Master of the Palace:—The Sentinel is 
informed, and the Audience Chamber is duly guarded.
P. M. P.: Sovereign Master:—The Sentinel is in­
formed.
S. M.: Prince Master of the Palace:—Prepare for our 
devotions.
P. M. P.:
S. M.:
Companions, Attention. Un-cover. 
Excellent High Priest:—Lead our devotions.
Prayer
S. M.: Companions, Re-cover. I now declare this 
Council of the Illustrious Order of the Red Cross closed. 
Companion Warder:—Inform the Sentinel.
W.: [Opens door and says:] Companion Sentinel:— 
The Council is closed.
[Warder returns to station and reports.]
Sovereign Master:—The Sentinel is informed. 
Companions:—You are dismissed.
W.:
S. M.:
47
46
